Welcome to fracturing with the grease pencil.
So this is all about manual destruction.
But this time with drawing which gives us even more control over how the object will fracture.
Now this probably is about as manual as you want to get before it starts getting to owner risk to do
anything.
Okay so in a few moments we're going to show you how to set up the grease pencil to work with the fracture
tool because if you just use it by default it won't work.
There's one setting that we've got a nail and then we're going to be using the grease pencil for fracture
guides.
So let's go hop straight on over in a blender.
Okay so before we jump in and start scribbling over our model with the greasepaint So we need to make
sure we've got a few things ready.
First of all I want a campus to be able to draw on.
And this cube is not going to be quite right for me so I'm going to scale it on the z axis by point
1 so it's nice in then on the scale again on the without being on the z axis.
Though get eight.
That's plenty big enough.
I'm also going to apply the scale at this point with the right set of keys control and a scale.
Perfect.
So before we start scribbling on it we need to open up a 3D editor properties panel go down to where
it's his grease pencil and we need to change this to objects so that the grease pencil and the fracture
tool talked to one another.
Right.
So let's get rid of the tool shelf zoom around to the top and the properties window then that's gone
as well.
Orthographic projection viewed from the top.
Perfect.
And also going to get rid of the time line here.
It's just not needed.
So let's start by just drawing a single line.
I'm holding down the d key.
Grease pencils a single line.
I open up the cell fractured soul go to greasepaint So I'm not going to change any other settings.
And let's see what happens.
Okay so it looks like.
Excellent so the splintering seems to almost be perpendicular.
Come I'm calling it splintering here the fracturing seems to be almost perpendicular to that particular
line that I drew.
Okay so let's just undo that and see what happens with three lines saying to draw one line on this side
and one line on this side.
And let's do the same thing again.
Space enter grease pencil.
Okay.
Okay excellent So what we're seeing here is the grease pencil itself isn't drawing where the fractures
are going to be.
That's quite important.
It's drawing a line guiding where the fractures are going to be.
So the fractures aren't necessarily following this exact path.
Let's go back to where those lines are so we can see them to a line here.
Line here the line here.
In fact just so we know what's going on I'm going to go to the scene settings and read draw these lines
just so we can see them as well roughly as they are when we go over to our other objects.
So over here so we can see what's going on select everything.
All there we get so we can see here that it splits between these lines almost equally.
Okay so what happens if we join this line up perhaps with a spiral or a circle.
Let's try that.
So this point I'm just going to get rid of those points completely and on the object I'm going to make
sure I'm on the right object here so we can actually select that thing just get rid of it that's probably
be the quickest way rather than just the leting it going to go back round to the top.
Orthographic I'm just going to delete the grease pencil I've already done on the objects and making
sure it's his object.
Let's draw some concentric circles.
So one.
Soo.
The re I'm just driven.
Draw an absolute squiggle down the side there and see what happens.
You know this is one of these things where experimentation is going to reward you now because we've
got a few other bits to break up.
I'm going to turn that up to maybe 200.
So there can be more shards.
How about that.
We've actually got shattering happening in a circle.
Now you may notice that when glass breaks sometimes it breaks in that type of pattern.
Again if you are trying to emulate something from the real world I would strongly recommend you're using
reference material.
Let's go have a look at how that looks.
That is awesome.
So I could just imagine something has impacted this bang in the middle there.
So let's make sure once again.
Well I'm going to say let's make sure I'm probably not going to correct it at this point in time.
But let's check and see how this behaves when you apply physics to it.
So just going to apply active body with no gravity whatsoever and basically make sure it doesn't throw
itself for parts because if you're starting from a model that spontaneously explodes on you and by the
way it's not I know the timeline's not here but with Oulton a we can see it's running through just here.
So that is already a great start.
Now of course we can have a bit of fun with that.
We can literally let's add something else to the scene rather than playing about so in object mode.
I'm going to add in a what shall I had Eevee sphere almost like a ball hitting it and then give that
active as well.
And then I can literally just lower it in there and smash just comes through.
How cool is that sauce.
Okay guys.
That's it for the grease pencil.
Have lots of fun with it.
Remember to share your particular work what did you come up with when you played with this boom.
Oh it's just research.
I love it without with Lawyer.
Okay.
I stopped doing that.
Now remember to show your work over on the forums and I will see you guys pile on a move too quick in
the next lecture.